# Assessing NBA Players' Political Impact through Twitter
### Project Created in Fall 2020

The social activism of professional athletes in the United States has grown substantially over the past 10 years, and much of this increase in spreading awareness has been possible due to the rise of social media. Players are able to post about issues that are important to them whenever they desire, and with the fight against systemic racism and the polarizing presidential election coming to a head over the past few months, they have done just that. Whether it has been through calling for government action after the unjust killings of George Floyd and Breonna Taylor at the hands of police officers or purposefully reminding their followers to get registered to vote, athletes have been using their platform to promote social justice initiatives extensively over the past few months in particular. However, there are plenty of Americans who disagree with this progression and would like them to just “stick to sports.” For example, Fox News anchor Laura Ingraham notably told LeBron James to “shut up and dribble” after he publicly expressed his disdain for President Trump in 2018. Ingraham and other detractors of these acts of player empowerment have called for Americans to boycott the league this past season as they felt sports should be devoid of any outside messages, especially topics deemed to be political. They also commonly claimed that these messages were going unheard and would not affect the mindsets or actions of Americans. With this in mind, I set out to measure the impact athletes have through social justice posts on social media and to analyze how the public interacts with their political tweets. I am focusing on players in the National Basketball Association (NBA), since they have been the most outspoken on social justice issues.

